<p><i>Proof.</i> To prove this
result we are going to show that the halting problem for Turing machines is
many-to-one reducible to the triviality problem for multidimensional knots. Then Theorem 1
becomes an immediate corollary of the algorithmic unsolvability of the halting
problem.</p>

<p>Let G be a finitely
presented group and w<i>&#8712;</i> G be its element such that</p>

<p>(i)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <i>H</i><sub>1</sub><i>(G)=</i>&#8484;</p>

<p>(ii)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <i>H<sub>2</sub>(G)</i> = {0};</p>

<p>(iii)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <i>G</i> is the normal closure of <i>w.</i></p>

<p>M. Kervaire proved ([K]) that
the conditions (i)-(iii) imply that for any n &#8805;3 there exists</p>

<p>a knot <i>f: S<sup>n</sup> &#8594; S<sup>n + 2</sup></i> such that
its group is <i>G.</i></p>

<p>Assume that <i>K</i>
is a finitely presented group such that:</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>(a)<i>    H</i><sub>1</sub><i>(K) = H<sub>2</sub>(K) =</i> {0}<i>;</i></p>

<p>(b)    There exists an element <i>h </i><i>&#8712; K</i> such that
<i>K/[h, K]</i> = {0}.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>Then the group <i>G = K ×</i>&#8484;
and w = (<i>h</i>, 1) <i>&#8712;</i>
G satisfy the mentioned above conditions (i)-(iii).</p>

<p>(Here 1 denotes the generator of &#8484;).
Indeed, (i) immediately follows from the perfectness of <i>K,</i> and (ii) follows from the Künneth formula.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>To prove (iii) observe that in
G̃ = <i>G/the normal closure of (h,</i>
1), then in G̃ we have <i>(h,</i> 0) = <i>(e,</i> -1), where <i>e</i>
denotes the identity in <i>K.</i> Hence the
image of <i>(h,</i> 0) in <i>G̃</i> commutes with the image in <i>G̃</i> of any element of <i>G</i> of the form <i>(g,</i>
0), <i>g </i><i>&#8712; K.</i> Now the
property (b) of <i>K</i> implies that G̃ is trivial, whence (iii) follows.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>The property (a) guarantees
that if n &#8805; 4 then <i>K</i> is the
fundamental group of a (<i>n</i> + 1)-dimensional homology sphere. In fact, one can
find in [K2] a construction of such a homology sphere
&#931;<i><sup>n+</sup></i><sup>1</sup> starting
from a given finite presentation of <i>K.</i> A
detailed exposition of this construction can be found in the Appendix to [N1].</p>

<p>&#931;<sup>n+1</sup>
is constructed in [N1] as a non-singular algebraic hypersurface in &#8477;<sup>n+2</sup>.
Therefore, if <i>K</i> is trivial, then &#931;<sup>n</sup>
<sup>+ 1</sup> is diffeomorphic to <i>S<sup>n +</sup>
</i><sup>1</sup><i>.</i> If n=3, then the
Markov modification of the classical Dehn construction (cf. [BHP]) allows one
to construct a compact four-dimensional manifold <i>M</i><sup>4</sup> such that its fundamental group is <i>K</i> and its homology groups are isomorphic to
corresponding homology groups of the connected sum of several copies of S<sup>2</sup>
× S<sup>2</sup>. (This manifold can be constructed as a non-singular algebraic
hypersurface in &#8477;<sup>5</sup> defined as the zero set of a polynomial with
rational coefficients.) Moreover, if <i>K</i>
is trivial (but the given finite presentation of <i>K</i> is arbitrary) this construction yields the manifold
<i>M<sup>4</sup></i> diffeomorphic to the
connected sum of several copies of S<sup>2</sup> × S<sup>2</sup>. Also, the
property (a) of <i>K</i> and the Hopf theorem
imply that the Hurewicz homomorphism &#960;<i><sub>2</sub>(M<sup>4</sup>)
&#8594;H<sub>2</sub>(M<sup>4</sup>)</i> is surjective.</p>

</div>

</body>

</html>
