
Proof. To prove this result we are going to show that the halting problem for Turing machines is many-to-one reducible to the triviality problem for multidimensional knots. Then Theorem 1 becomes an immediate corollary of the algorithmic unsolvability of the halting problem.

Let $G$ be a finitely presented group and $w \in G$ be its element such that

<ol style="list-style-type: lower-roman;">
<li>

$H_{1}(G)=\mathbb{Z}$;

<li>

$H_{2}(G)=\{0\}$;


<li>

$G$ is the normal closure of $w$.

</ol>

M. Kervaire proved ([K]) that the conditions (i)-(iii) imply that for any $n \geq 3$ there exists a knot $f: S^{n} \rightarrow S^{n+2}$ such that its group is $G$.

Assume that $K$ is a finitely presented group such that:

<ol style="list-style-type: lower-alpha;">
<li>

$H_{1}(K)=H_{2}(K)=\{0\}$;

<li>

There exists an element $h \in K$ such that $K /[h, K]=\{0\}$.

</ol>

Then the group $G=K \times \mathbb{Z}$ and $w=(h, 1) \in G$ satisfy the mentioned above conditions (i)-(iii). (Here 1 denotes the generator of $\mathbb{Z}$). Indeed, (i) immediately follows from the perfectness of $K$, and (ii) follows from the Künneth formula. To prove (iii) observe that in $\tilde{G}=G /$ the normal closure of $(h, 1)$, then in $\tilde{G}$ we have $(h, 0)=(e,-1)$, where $e$ denotes the identity in $K$. Hence the image of $(h, 0)$ in $\tilde{G}$ commutes with the image in $\tilde{G}$ of any element of $G$ of the form $(g, 0), g \in K$. Now the property (b) of $K$ implies that $\tilde{G}$ is trivial, whence (iii) follows.

The property (a) guarantees that if $n \geq 4$ then $K$ is the fundamental group of a ($n+1$)-dimensional homology sphere. In fact, one can find in [K2] a construction of such a homology sphere $\Sigma^{n+1}$ starting from a given finite presentation of $K$. A detailed exposition of this construction can be found in the Appendix to [N1]. $\Sigma^{n+1}$ is constructed in [N1] as a non-singular algebraic hypersurface in $\mathbb{R}^{n+2}$. Therefore, if $K$ is trivial, then $\Sigma^{n+1}$ is diffeomorphic to $S^{n+1}$. If $n=3$, then the Markov modification of the classical Dehn construction (cf. [BHP]) allows one to construct a compact four-dimensional manifold $M^{4}$ such that its fundamental group is $K$ and its homology groups are isomorphic to corresponding homology groups of the connected sum of several copies of $S^{2} \times S^{2}$. (This manifold can be constructed as
a non-singular algebraic hypersurface in $\mathbb{R}^{5}$ defined as the zero set of a polynomial with rational coefficients.) Moreover, if $K$ is trivial (but the given finite presentation of $K$ is arbitrary) this construction yields the manifold $M^{4}$ diffeomorphic to the connected sum of several copies of $S^{2} \times S^{2}$. Also, the property (a) of $K$ and the Hopf theorem imply that the Hurewicz homomorphism $\pi_{2}\left(M^{4}\right) \rightarrow H_{2}\left(M^{4}\right)$ is surjective.