<p>It is obvious that <i>G<sub>w</sub></i>
is perfect. Hence there exists the universal central extension <i>G&#773;<sub>w</sub></i> of <i>G<sub>w</sub></i>
(cf. [Mi], Theorem 5.7 or [Ros], Theorem 4.1.3). The
universal central extension of a perfect group with generators <i>f</i><sub>1</sub>,…,<i>f<sub>n</sub></i>
and relators <i>r</i><sub>1</sub>,…,<i>r<sub>m</sub></i> has the following finite presentation;
The set of generators is the same set <i>f</i><sub>1</sub>,…,<i>f<sub>n</sub>. </i>The set of relators includes all words
[<i>r<sub>j</sub>,f<sub>i</sub></i>]<i>, j </i>∈{1,…,<i> m</i>}<i>, i </i>∈<i> </i>{1,…,<i> n</i>} and,
in addition, <i>n</i> relators <i>R<sub>f<sub>i</sub></sub>,</i> corresponding to the generators, and
defined as follows: <i>R<sub>f<sub>i</sub></sub></i> is
any product of powers of relators <i>r<sub>j</sub></i>,
such that <i>f<sub>i</sub> = R<sub>f<sub>i</sub></sub> comm<sub>i</sub></i>
in the free group <i>F </i>generated by <i>f</i><sub>1</sub>, …,<i>f<sub>n</sub></i>
where <i>comm<sub>i</sub></i> is a product of
commutators of elements of <i>F.</i> (The
existence of <i>R<sub>f<sub>i</sub></sub></i> immediately
follows from the perfectness of the group. A proof of the fact that the
above-described finite presentation is, indeed, a finite presentation of the
universal central extension of the considered group is a part of the proof of
the S. Novikov theorem on the algorithmic unrecognizability of <i>S<sup>n</sup></i> for <i>n</i>
≥ 5 and can be found in the Appendix to [N1]).</p>

<p>In
particular, if one wishes to write down such a finite presentation for <i>G&#773;<sub>w</sub>,</i> it is possible to take the left hand
side of (2&quot;) as <i>R<sub>a</sub>,</i> the
product of <i>b</i> and the inverse of the left
hand side of (3') as <i>R<sub>b</sub>,</i> the
left hand side of (1&quot;) as <i>R<sub>c</sub>,</i>
the product of <i>X<sub>i</sub></i> and the
inverse of the right hand side of (4') as <i>R<sub>x<sub>i</sub></sub>.
</i>Now the fact that the relators <i>R<sub>a</sub>,
R<sub>b</sub>, R<sub>c</sub>, R<sub>x<sub>i</sub></sub>,</i> <i>i</i> ∈ {1,…, <i>k</i>} are among the relators of <i>G&#773;<sub>w</sub></i> implies that formulae (1)-(4) will be
true also in <i>G&#773;<sub>w</sub>.</i> Therefore
one can prove that <i>G&#773;<sub>w</sub></i>
coincides with the normal closure of <i>w </i>∈
<i>G&#773;<sub>w</sub></i> exactly as it was done in
[M] on pp. 14-15 for <i>G<sub>w</sub></i> and <i>w </i>∈ <i>G<sub>w</sub>.</i> Now, the perfectness of <i>G&#773;<sub>w</sub></i> implies that <i>w </i>∈ <i>G&#773;<sub>w</sub></i> can be represented as a product of
commutators of products of conjugates of powers of <i>w</i>. Hence, <i>G&#773;<sub>w</sub>
</i>/[<i>w</i>,<i>
G&#773;<sub>w</sub></i>] is trivial. It is well-known that the second homology group
of the Universal central extension of a perfect group is trivial (cf. Lemma 2
in [K3] or Corollary 4.1.18 in [Ros]). Finally note that the universal central
extension of a perfect group is trivial if and only if the group is trivial.
Hence <i>w</i> = <i>e</i> in <i>G</i> if and only
if <i>G&#773;<sub>w </sub></i>is trivial. Thus, <i>G&#773;<sub>w </sub></i>has properties (1)-(3) introduced in
the statement of Lemma 2. So we can take <i>H =
G&#773;<sub>w</sub>. □</i></p>
