It is obvious that $G_{w}$ is perfect. Hence there exists the universal central extension $\bar{G}_{w}$ of $G_{w}$ (cf. [Mi], Theorem 5.7 or [Ros], Theorem 4.1.3). The universal central extension of a perfect group with generators $f_{1}, \ldots, f_{n}$ and relators $r_{1}, \ldots, r_{m}$ has the following finite presentation; The set of generators is the same set $f_{1}, \ldots, f_{n}$. The set of relators includes all words $\left[r_{j}, f_{i}\right], j \in\{1, \ldots, m\}, i \in\{1, \ldots, n\}$ and, in addition, $n$ relators $R_{f_{i}}$, corresponding to the generators $f_{i}$, and defined as follows: $R_{f_{i}}$ is any product of powers of relators $r_{j}$ such that $f_{i}=R_{f_{i}}$ comm $_{i}$ in the free group $F$ generated by $f_{1}, \ldots, f_{n}$, where $\mathrm{comm}_{i}$ is a product of commutators of elements of $F$. (The existence of $R_{f_{i}}$ immediately follows from the perfectness of the group. A proof of the fact that the above-described finite presentation is, indeed, a finite presentation of the universal central extension of the considered group is a part of the proof of the S. Novikov theorem on the algorithmic unrecognizability of $S^{n}$ for $n \geq 5$ and can be found in the Appendix to [N1]).

In particular, if one wishes to write down such a finite presentation for $\bar{G}_{w}$, it is possible to take the left hand side of (2'') as $R_{a}$, the product of $b$ and the inverse of the left hand side of (3') as $R_{b}$, the left hand side of (1'') as $R_{c}$, the product of $x_{i}$ and the inverse of the right hand side of (4') as $R_{x_{i}}$. Now the fact that the relators $R_{a}, R_{b}, R_{c}, R_{x_{i}}, i \in\{1, \ldots, k\}$ are among the relators of $\bar{G}_{w}$ implies that formulae (1)-(4) will be true also in $\bar{G}_{w}$. Therefore one can prove that $\bar{G}_{w}$ coincides with the normal closure of $w \in \bar{G}_{w}$ exactly as it was done in [M] on pp. 14-15 for $G_{w}$ and $w \in G_{w}$. Now, the perfectness of $\bar{G}_{w}$ implies that $w \in \bar{G}_{w}$ can be represented as a product of commutators of products of conjugates of powers of $w$. Hence, $\bar{G}_{w} /\left[w, \bar{G}_{w}\right]$ is trivial. It is well-known that the second homology group of the universal central extension of a perfect group is trivial (cf. Lemma 2 in [K3] or Corollary 4.1.18 in [Ros]). Finally note that the universal central extension of a perfect group is trivial if and only if the group is trivial. Hence $w=e$ in $G$ if and only if $\bar{G}_{w}$ is trivial. Thus, $\bar{G}_{w}$ has properties (1)-(3) introduced in the statement of Lemma 2. So we can take $H=\bar{G}_{w}$.