<p>REMARK. An anonymous referee of this paper
noticed that Lemma 2 can be proven without using the notion of the universal
central extension. Instead he suggested to define the same group <i>G̅<sub>w</sub></i> as the group with the same generators
as <i>G<sub>w</sub>, </i>the relations
(1')-(4') and the further relations</p>

<p>[<i>r</i>,<i> a</i>]<i> </i>= [<i>r</i>,<i> b</i>]<i> = </i>[<i>r</i>, <i>c</i>] = [<i>r</i>, <i>x<sub>i</sub></i>] <i>=e</i>,<i>          i = </i>1, …,<i>
k,</i>                (5')</p>

<p>where <i>r</i> runs over the set of all relators of <i>G.</i> (It is not difficult to see that this finite
presentation is a simplification of the finite presentation of <i>G̅<sub>w</sub></i> considered above.) One can prove that <i>G̅<sub>w</sub> = </i>[<i>w,
G̅<sub>w</sub></i>] exactly as above. If <i>w</i>
= <i>e</i> in <i>G</i>
then <i>w</i> freely equals to the product of
conjugates by words in the <i>x<sub>i</sub></i>
of the elements <i>r</i> and their inverses. By
(5') <i>w</i> commutes with all generators of <i>G̅<sub>w </sub></i> in <i>G̅<sub>w
</sub>.</i> Therefore <i>G̅<sub>w</sub> = </i>[<i>w, G̅<sub>w</sub></i>]<i>
= </i>{<i>e</i>}<i>. </i>It was shown in [M] that if <i>w</i> ≠ <i>e</i> in <i>G,</i> then <i>G</i>
embeds into <i>G<sub>w</sub>.</i> Since <i>G<sub>w</sub></i> is a quotient of <i>G̅<sub>w</sub>,</i> the group <i>G̅<sub>w</sub></i> is not trivial in this case. It
remains to prove that <i>H</i><sub>2</sub>(<i>G̅<sub>w</sub></i>) = 0. The referee has indicated a
direct argument (similar to the proof of Lemma 2.2 in [N3]) showing that this
is, indeed, the case.</p>

<p>It is known that in the smooth category there
exist non-trivial knots in codimensions &gt;2. However, the work of J. Levine
[L] (see also [Hf]) implies the algorithmic solvability of the triviality
problem for smooth knots of codimension <i>≥</i>3.
However, we shall see elsewhere that the general embeddability problem in
dimension &gt;2 is algorithmically unsolvable even for simply connected
manifolds (and for reasons not related with fundamental groups).</p>

<p>Theorem 1 can be used to obtain some
information about the geometry of the space of <i>trivial</i>
(in either PL or the smooth category) <i>n</i>-dimensional
knots in ℝ<i><sup>n</sup></i><sup>+2 </sup>(or <i>S<sup>n</sup></i><sup>+2</sup>) for any <i>n ≥ </i>3<i>.</i> Here is
an example of such application. Let for any <i>n</i>,
<i>N</i>,<i>
Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>) denote the space
of all piecewise-linear maps <i>f</i> of <i>S<sup>n</sup></i> (regarded as the boundary of the
standard <i>n + </i>1-dimensional simplex) to ℝ<i><sup>n</sup></i><sup>+2</sup>, made of not more than <i>N</i> linear pieces. Let <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)<i> </i>⊂ <i>Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)
denote the subset of <i>Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)<i> </i>formed by
all maps <i>f</i> such that <i>f</i>(<i>S<sup>n</sup></i>)
has the trivial knot type. Obviously, <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>) is the union of a family of connected components
of <i>Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)<i>.</i> We regard <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i><sub>1</sub>)
and <i>Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i><sub>1</sub>) as subsets of, correspondingly, <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i><sub>2</sub>)<i> </i>and <i>Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i><sub>2</sub>) for any <i>N</i><sub>2</sub> &gt; <i>N</i><sub>1</sub>.
We will demonstrate below that for any <i>n </i>≥<i> </i>3 and all sufficiently large <i>N</i>, <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>) is disconnected. Still, it is easy to see that <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)
can have only finitely many connected components. Hence for any <i>n</i>,<i> N</i> there
exists <i>M ≥ N</i> such that <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)
is comprised in a connected component of <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>M</i>)<i>.</i> (Indeed,
we can choose a representative <i>f<sub>i</sub></i>
from every connected component of <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)<i>.</i> For every pair <i>i,j,
f<sub>i</sub></i>(<i>S<sup>n</sup></i>) and <i>f<sub>j</sub></i>(<i>S<sup>n</sup></i>)
can be connected by an isotopy which can be approximated by an isotopy passing
through piecewise-linear maps of <i>S<sup>n</sup></i>
into ℝ<i><sup>n</sup></i><sup>+2</sup> made of
not more than <i>M<sub>ij</sub></i> linear
pieces for some number <i>M<sub>ij</sub>.</i>
One can now take max<i><sub>i</sub></i><sub>,</sub><i><sub>j</sub>M<sub>ij</sub></i> for <i>M.</i>) Now for a fixed <i>n </i>consider the minimal of such numbers <i>M</i> as a function of <i>N.</i>
Denote this function by <i>Tr<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>).</p>
