REMARK. An anonymous referee of this paper noticed that Lemma 2 can be proven without using the notion of the universal central extension. Instead he suggested to define the same group $\bar{G}_{w}$ as the group with the same generators as $G_{w}$, the relations (1')-(4') and the further relations


\begin{equation*}
[r, a]=[r, b]=[r, c]=\left[r, x_{i}\right]=e, \quad i=1, \ldots, k \tag{5'}
\end{equation*}


where $r$ runs over the set of all relators of $G$. (It is not difficult to see that this finite presentation is a simplification of the finite presentation of $\bar{G}_{w}$ considered above.) One can prove that $\bar{G}_{w}=\left[w, \bar{G}_{w}\right]$ exactly as above. If $w=e$ in $G$ then $w$ freely equals to the product of conjugates by words in the $x_{i}$ of the elements $r$ and their inverses. By ( $5^{\prime}$ ) $w$ commutes with all generators of $\bar{G}_{w}$ in $\bar{G}_{w}$. Therefore $\bar{G}_{w}=\left[w, \bar{G}_{w}\right]=\{e\}$. It was shown in [M] that if $w \neq e$ in $G$, then $G$ embeds into $G_{w}$. Since $G_{w}$ is a quotient of $\bar{G}_{w}$, the group $\bar{G}_{w}$ is not trivial in this case. It remains to prove that $H_{2}\left(\bar{G}_{w}\right)=0$. The referee has indicated a direct argument (similar to the proof of Lemma 2.2 in [N3]) showing that this is, indeed, the case.

It is known that in the smooth category there exist non-trivial knots in codimensions $>2$. However, the work of J. Levine [L] (see also [Hf]) implies the algorithmic solvability of the triviality problem for smooth knots of codimension $\geq 3$. However, we shall see elsewhere that the general embeddability problem in dimension $>2$ is algorithmically unsolvable even for simply connected manifolds (and for reasons not related with fundamental groups).

Theorem 1 can be used to obtain some information about the geometry of the space of trivial (in either PL or the smooth category) $n$-dimensional knots in $\mathbb{R}^{n+2}$ (or $S^{n+2}$) for any $n \geq 3$. Here is an example of such application. Let for any $n$, $N \operatorname{Knot}_{n}(N)$ denote the space of all piecewise-linear maps $f$ of $S^{n}$ (regarded as the boundary of the standard $n+1$-dimensional simplex) to $\mathbb{R}^{n+2}$, made of not more than $N$ linear pieces. Let $\operatorname{TrivKnot}_{n}(N) \subset \operatorname{Knot}_{n}(N)$ denote the subset of $\operatorname{Knot}_{n}(N)$ formed by all maps $f$ such that $f\left(S^{n}\right)$ has the trivial knot type. Obviously, $\operatorname{TrivKnot}_{n}(N)$ is the union of a family of connected components of $\operatorname{Knot}_{n}(N)$. We regard $\operatorname{TrivKnot}_{n}\left(N_{1}\right)$ and $\operatorname{Knot}_{n}\left(N_{1}\right)$ as subsets of, correspondingly, $\operatorname{TrivKnot}_{n}\left(N_{2}\right)$ and $\operatorname{Knot}_{n}\left(N_{2}\right)$ for any $N_{2} \geq N_{1}$. We will demonstrate below that for any $n \geq 3$ and all sufficiently large $N$, $\operatorname{TrivKnot}_{n}(N)$ is disconnected. Still, it is easy to see that $\operatorname{TrivKnot}_{n}(N)$ can have only finitely many connected components. Hence for any $n, N$ there exists $M \geq N$ such that $\operatorname{TrivKnot}_{n}(N)$ is comprised in a connected component of $\operatorname{TrivKnot}_n(M)$. (Indeed, we can choose a representative $f_{i}$ from every connected component of $\operatorname{TrivKnot}_{n}(N)$. For every pair $i, j$, $f_{i}\left(S^{n}\right)$ and $f_{j}\left(S^{n}\right)$ can be connected by an isotopy which can be approximated by an isotopy passing through piecewise-linear maps of $S^{n}$ into $\mathbb{R}^{n+2}$ made of not more than $M_{i j}$ linear pieces for some number $M_{i j}$. One can now take $\max _{i, j} M_{i j}$ for $M$.) Now for a fixed $n$ consider the minimal of such numbers $M$ as a function of $N$. Denote this function by $\operatorname{Tr}_{n}(N)$.