<p>THEOREM 3. <i>Let n </i>≥ 3<i> be any fixed number.
The function Tr<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)<i> cannot be majorized by any Turing computable function of
N.</i></p>

<p><i>Sketch of the proof.</i>
Assume that <i>Tr<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>) can be majorized by a Turing computable function
of <i>N.</i> Now it is not difficult to
construct an algorithm deciding whether or not a given PL-knot in ℝ<i><sup>n</sup></i><sup>+2</sup> is trivial, thus obtaining
a contradiction with Theorem 1. The idea is that for any <i>k</i>,<i> Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>k</i>) can be regarded as a semi-algebraic set in a
Euclidean space of a sufficiently large dimension. The possibility to compute
an upper bound <i>θ</i>(<i>N</i>) for <i>Tr<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>) enables one to replace the triviality problem for
PL-knots by the equivalent problem of recognizing whether or not a given point
in <i>Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>) ⊂ <i>Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>θ</i>(<i>N</i>))<i>,</i> where <i>N</i> is a given number, belongs to the same connected
component of <i>Knot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>θ</i>(<i>N</i>)) as the
point, corresponding to the standard unknotted
embedding of <i>S<sup>n</sup></i> into ℝ<i><sup>n</sup></i><sup>+2</sup>. But it is well-known that
the problem of recognizing whether or not two given points are in the same
connected component of a given semi-algebraic set is algorithmically solvable
(cf. [BCR]). □</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>

<p>REMARK. The statement that
<i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>) is disconnected is obviously equivalent to the
inequality <i>Tr<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)<i> &gt; N.</i>
Hence Theorem 3 implies that <i>for any n </i>≥ 3<i> and for an infinite set
of values of N, TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)
is <i>disconnected.</i> Moreover, using Lemma 6
of [N4] instead of the mere algorithmic unsolvability of the halting problem
for Turing machines in the foundation of the proof of Theorem 3 one can prove
that not only <i>Tr<sub>n</sub></i> cannot be
majorized by any Turing computable function, but that for any Turing computable
function <i>θ</i> and any <i>n </i>≥ 3,<i> Tr<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)<i> &gt; θ</i>(<i>N</i>) for all sufficiently large <i>N.</i> As a corollary, we see that <i>for any N </i>≥ 3<i> for all sufficiently
large N, TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)<i> is disconnected.</i> (It is quite plausible, however,
that <i>TrivKnot<sub>1</sub>(N) </i>and <i>TrivKnot<sub>2</sub>(N)</i> are also disconnected for all
sufficiently large <i>N,</i> and that this
statement admits a constructive proof.)</p>

<p>The methods of [N3] show
that for <i>n</i> ≥ 3 the number of connected components of <i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>)
grows at least exponentially with <i>N.</i> In
fact for any recursive function <i>f</i> the
rank of the image of <i>H<sub>0</sub></i>(<i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>N</i>))
in <i>H<sub>0</sub></i>(<i>TrivKnot<sub>n</sub></i>(<i>f</i>(<i>N</i>))<i> </i>grows
exponentially.</p>

<p>Other results about
non-computability in geometry and its applications in the spirit of Theorem 3
can be found in [N0]-[N5], [ABB], [G, section 5.C].</p>
